# Reasons for concurrency and parallelism


To complete this exercise you will have to use git. Create one or several commits that adds answers to the following questions and push it to your groups repository to complete the task.

When answering the questions, remember to use all the resources at your disposal. Asking the internet isn't a form of "cheating", it's a way of learning.

### What is concurrency? What is parallelism? What's the difference?
> Concurrency means that different parts of a program or algorithm can be executed
out-of-order, but without effecting the final outcome of the program. two processes are worked
on at the same time, but never at the same time instant. Parallelism
means that different programs or processes are executed simultaneously.

> Concurrency can for example occur when two threads run in one application on a single-core
processor. Parallelism occurs when two threads run at the same time instant, for example on a
multiprocessor computer.

### Why have machines become increasingly multicore in the past decade?
> The rise of multicore computers in the last decades is a result of processors not getting
any faster. This is due to several reasons. Firstly, processors outperformed memory, creating a
so-called "memory wall". In addition, the increased performance meant processor cores used more power and thus became hotter. The power issue also meant that an attempt at creating a deeper pipeline resulted in additional power usage.

> By slowing down individual cores and adding several cores to a processor - thereby changing to a multicore approach - manufactures could ensure processors become faster in the future. This way Moore´s law will also be upheld to a larger degree.

### What kinds of problems motivates the need for concurrent execution?
(Or phrased differently: What problems do concurrency help in solving?)
> Concurrent execution increases program throughput. This means that a concurrent program
 better utilizes the underlying hardware of the computer system it is running on.

### Does creating concurrent programs make the programmer's life easier? Harder? Maybe both?
(Come back to this after you have worked on part 4 of this exercise)
> Concurrent programs enables better hardware utilization, and therefore faster programs. However, the application must be split up into several parts in different threads. This means the programmer must be able to coordinate the sharing of variables and communication between threads.
In addition, concurrent solutions can end up being difficult to test, as the program execution is not necessarily deterministic.

### What are the differences between processes, threads, green threads, and coroutines?
> A process is an executing instance of a program. It provides the resources needed to execute the program. Amongst other things, it contains a virtual address space and executable code. Each process is started with at least a single thread.

> A thread is a subset of a process. Because it is an entity within within a process, it can be scheduled for execution. Inside a process, all threads share its virtual memory space. Different processes, however, run in different memory spaces.

> A green thread are threads that are scheduled by a virtual machine, rather than by the underlying operating system. This means they are implemented on an application level and not on the operating system. Green threads thereby enables thread-like functionality without actually using multiple cores, if the OS does not provide a thread API.

> A coroutine is - similarly to a thread - a sequence of execution in a process. Coroutines are used cooperatively, meaning the programmer or language must determine when to switch coroutines. Multitasking is therefore done at a more "manual" level and control is handed over by pausing and resuming. Threads, on the other hand, are switched between preemptively by a scheduler run by the OS.

### Which one of these do `pthread_create()` (C/POSIX), `threading.Thread()` (Python), `go` (Go) create?
> `pthread_create()` creates a new thread within a process. The ID of the thread that is created is saved.
`threading.Thread()` creates a thread. Threads in python can not run in true parallel without multiprocessing, due to the Global Interpreter Lock.
`go` starts a so-called "goroutine", which is a lightweight thread.

### How does pythons Global Interpreter Lock (GIL) influence the way a python Thread behaves?
> The Python GIL allows only one thread to hold control of the Python Interpreter at a time. It is therefore a mutex (or lock). This means that the Interpreter lock only allows one thread to execute at a time even on multi-threaded systems. This can result in a performance bottleneck.

### With this in mind: What is the workaround for the GIL (Hint: it's another module)?
> The GIL workaround for multi-threaded applications is to use multiple processes instead of threads. This can be done by the use of the Python `multiprocessing` module. By doing this, each Python process gets its own Interpreter and memory space.   

### What does `func GOMAXPROCS(n int) int` change?
> This function in golang sets the maximum number of CPU's that are allowed to execute simultaneously. The `GOMAXPROCS` variable limits the number of operating system threads that can execute user-level code simultaneously.
