# Mutex and Channel basics

### What is an atomic operation?
> An atomic operation is an operation that appears to be instantaneous from all threads. It is an operation that is fully executed once it is started. Additionally, atomic operations often have a fail-or-succeed definition, meaning that they either fail and have no effect, or that they succeed and change the state of the system.

### What is a semaphore?
> A semaphore is a variable that is used to control access to a shared resource (for example in a process with several threads).

> In real-time processes, semaphores are often used to to record how many *units* of a resource is available. It can be used to signal the use of a resource. If no units of a resource are available, then a thread has to/should wait. This concept can be used to prevent race conditions.

### What is a mutex?
> A mutex is an object used to prevent race conditions, and is a property of so-called concurrency control. It is used to lock access to a shared resource, so that two threads do not manipulate data at the same time (in a concurrent program). A mutex provides mutual exclusion, and as such there is ownership associated with a mutex lock. Only the current *owner* of the resource can release the lock and giver other threads access to the resource.

### What is the difference between a mutex and a binary semaphore?
> A mutex (lock) can only be released by the thread that acquired access to a resource. A binary semaphore, on the other hand, restricts the number of users of a shared resource up to a maximum number. Threads can request access to a resource by decrementing a semaphore counter and signal they have finished using a resource by incrementing the semaphore. In case of a binary semaphore, it is either 0 or 1.

### What is a critical section?
> A critical section is a group of

### What is the difference between race conditions and data races?
 > 

### List some advantages of using message passing over lock-based synchronization primitives.
> *Your answer here*

### List some advantages of using lock-based synchronization primitives over message passing.
> *Your answer here*
